Rise of OTT platform and its impact on entertainment industry by the year 2030

Efficient Supply Chain Assessment: Overcoming Technical Hurdles for Web Application Development
Streamlined Integration: Interactive Brokers API with Python for Desktop Trading Application
Efficient Data Integration and User-Friendly Interface Development: Navigating Challenges in Web Application Deployment
Effective Management of Social Media Data Extraction: Strategies for Authentication, Security, and Reliability
AI Bot Audio to audio
Methodology for ETL Discovery Tool using LLMA, OpenAI, Langchain
Methodology for database discovery tool using openai, LLMA, Langchain
Chatbot using VoiceFlow
Rising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.
Rising IT Cities and Their Impact on the Economy, Environment, Infrastructure, and City Life in Future
Internet Demand’s Evolution, Communication Impact, and 2035’s Alternative Pathways
Rise of Cybercrime and its Effect in upcoming Future
AI/ML and Predictive Modeling
Solution for Contact Centre Problems
How to Setup Custom Domain for Google App Engine Application?
Code Review Checklist
The advancement in technology and proliferation of the Internet has led to the wide exposure of entertainment platforms to a massive audience including teenagers, adults, and senile. In this research paper, we study the impact of Over-the-Top media on society as a whole especially after the pandemic when there was a sudden shift in remote work culture, educational practices being held online, families spending valuable time together, and majorly the access to viewers. Besides the convenience of receiving, the media has certain other advantages too. It has opened up the possibility of streaming ad-free content and undisturbed viewing. Also, the customer is truly the king here; he or she can watch what they want and when they want. However, there have been no studies so far that have examined the impact of OTT media on society, families, and individuals. 
There has been a prodigious change over the past decade as how there has been a shift of television viewers to Over-the-Top platforms which are now easily accessible to anyone through the internet. The widespread availability of broadband internet has led to the emergence and steady rise to prominence of many platforms, including YouTube, Netflix, and HBO Go. By satisfying media-hungry consumers’ needs and adjusting to their increasingly busy lifestyles, these platforms have found success.
The traditional TV-viewing experience is no longer restricted to real-time or the living room TV. Nowadays, users may consume content on laptops, tablets, portable devices, and gaming consoles whenever and wherever they want.  Especially the demand for OTT media and entertainment has seen a concurrent and large increase during the post-pandemic era, with internet usage increasing from 40% to 100% during that time. The widespread lockdowns have contributed to consumer awareness of the potential of OTT media services, enhancing their capacity to influence the daily consumption of content. By offering tailored content recommendations and focused adverts, media firms have also contributed to unlocking additional value for each of their unique viewers by utilizing Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Analytics. With the rise of cross-platform smart voice assistants ensuring the creation of a smart home ecosystem within the homes of the consumers, the transitions underway in the media and entertainment space enable customer-friendly easy content search with voice commands through Smart OTT Platforms will enhance customer experience by every passing day.
India’s OTT streaming video market is currently in its second growth phase with total revenues of $3 billion in 2022. To know about the impact of OTT platforms in India, it is important to consider consumers’ passive involvement, and interests which helps in analyzing the last action.
According to a survey by RBSA Advisors, India’s video OTT market is anticipated to grow from roughly USD 1.5 billion in 2021 to USD 12.5 billion by 2030 as a result of access to better networks, digital connections, and smartphones. According to the survey, Tier II, III, and Tier IV cities and the population who speak Indian languages would be responsible for the next wave of growth in the OTT environment.
The significant expenditures made in original and acquired content by OTT services like Netflix, Amazon, Disney+ Hotstar, and others will assist subscription video-on-demand in making up 93% of the total OTT income (as opposed to 87%) while expanding at a CAGR of 30.7% between 2019 and 2024.
We provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise.
Contact us: hello@blackcoffer.com
© All Right Reserved, Blackcoffer(OPC) Pvt. Ltd
