Management challenges for future digitalization of healthcare services

Efficient Supply Chain Assessment: Overcoming Technical Hurdles for Web Application Development
Streamlined Integration: Interactive Brokers API with Python for Desktop Trading Application
Efficient Data Integration and User-Friendly Interface Development: Navigating Challenges in Web Application Deployment
Effective Management of Social Media Data Extraction: Strategies for Authentication, Security, and Reliability
AI Bot Audio to audio
Methodology for ETL Discovery Tool using LLMA, OpenAI, Langchain
Methodology for database discovery tool using openai, LLMA, Langchain
Chatbot using VoiceFlow
Rising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.
Rising IT Cities and Their Impact on the Economy, Environment, Infrastructure, and City Life in Future
Internet Demand’s Evolution, Communication Impact, and 2035’s Alternative Pathways
Rise of Cybercrime and its Effect in upcoming Future
AI/ML and Predictive Modeling
Solution for Contact Centre Problems
How to Setup Custom Domain for Google App Engine Application?
Code Review Checklist
Management acts as a guide to a group of people working in the organization and coordinating their efforts, towards the attainment of the common objective.Management challenges for future digitalization of healthcare services
    In the current day and age, a wave of digitization has taken over the world. All the emerging technologies like Artificial Intelligence and others are helping people live better and easier life. The service sector has also benefited a lot from digitization. It got further boost when Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in the year 2015, launched a campaign known as ‘Digital India.’ Among the various industries in the service sector, digitization has had a massive impact on the operation of the healthcare and diagnostic industry. It has helped in the development of this industry and enhances life for millions of people. The condition of India in terms of healthcare has been quite grim. Patients who need attention are neglected and are unable to avail proper treatment or diagnosis. However, with the coming up of digitization, there has been hoped for this industry also.
According to Dr. Keshab Panda, CEO & MD, L&T Technology Services,
This is a model of healthcare where doctors and hospitals are paid based on patient health outcomes. The coming up of digital tools in this segment of healthcare can be considered as the starting tool. Dr. Panda further says that the implementation of advanced digital technologies in patient-care domains like- mobile health apps, telehealth, wearables, and remote monitoring can help in enhancing accessibility, boost efficiency and augment the effectiveness of treatment and preventive care.
The healthcare industry over the past few decades has changed drastically. With the coming of emerging technologies, new surgical procedures and medical devices have been made available.
While talking about connectivity in healthcare, Dr. Panda said that with digitization taking over the industry, it is only a matter of time when with the help of the internet and smartphones, digital healthcare will be everywhere. The internet for once has helped doctors connect to their patients and also with one another. This has helped in enhancing the doctor-patient engagement by increasing their interaction time.
Big data aggregates information about a business through formats such as social media, eCommerce, online transactions, and financial transactions, and identifies patterns and trends for future use.
Although ransomware, data breaches, and other cybersecurity concerns are nothing new to the healthcare industry, the 2020 Covid-19 pandemic revealed just how vulnerable sensitive patient health information really is.
The recent growth of digital health initiatives- like telehealth doctor visits — is a major contributor to the severe increase in breached patient records. As more healthcare functions continue to move online over the next year, it’s extremely important to ensure these processes are protected from outside threats.
Medical practices are citing patient collections as their top revenue cycle management struggle as patients are becoming responsible for a larger portion of their medical bills. In order to help encourage patients to submit payments in a timely manner, providers must adhere to patient payment preferences.
To meet patient expectations and improve the user experience, ensure billing statements are patient-friendly. You should offer paperless statements and a variety of payment options (e.g. credit card, etc.) via an online patient portal and utilize the latest payment technologies, such as mobile and text-to-pay. New features like text or email reminders help effectively communicate with patients and encourage them to pay their financial obligations.
The medical insurance landscape has experienced some significant changes in recent years. As more patients are responsible for a larger portion of their healthcare bill, they naturally demand better services from their providers.
Healthcare organizations will face tougher competition in attracting and retaining patients who demand an experience that matches the level of customer service they expect from other consumer brands.
They demand a streamlined patient experience so they can “self-service” to resolve most questions, issues, or concerns (e.g., downloading an immunization record, booking an appointment, paying their bills, or checking their account/insurance status) whenever, wherever, and however is most convenient for them.
We provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise.
Contact us: hello@blackcoffer.com
© All Right Reserved, Blackcoffer(OPC) Pvt. Ltd
