Embedding care robots into society and practice: Socio-technical considerations

Efficient Supply Chain Assessment: Overcoming Technical Hurdles for Web Application Development
Streamlined Integration: Interactive Brokers API with Python for Desktop Trading Application
Efficient Data Integration and User-Friendly Interface Development: Navigating Challenges in Web Application Deployment
Effective Management of Social Media Data Extraction: Strategies for Authentication, Security, and Reliability
AI Bot Audio to audio
Methodology for ETL Discovery Tool using LLMA, OpenAI, Langchain
Methodology for database discovery tool using openai, LLMA, Langchain
Chatbot using VoiceFlow
Rising IT cities and its impact on the economy, environment, infrastructure, and city life by the year 2040.
Rising IT Cities and Their Impact on the Economy, Environment, Infrastructure, and City Life in Future
Internet Demand’s Evolution, Communication Impact, and 2035’s Alternative Pathways
Rise of Cybercrime and its Effect in upcoming Future
AI/ML and Predictive Modeling
Solution for Contact Centre Problems
How to Setup Custom Domain for Google App Engine Application?
Code Review Checklist
Care Robots, as the name suggests, are robots that are used for hospitality purposes like fetching water, cracking jokes and keeping a patient in good harmony, etc.
The senior care industry has been at the forefront for quite a period. The reason being, Nuclear families becoming very busy in their schedule that one day when the parents of this nuclear family are old, children are nowhere to take care of. Instead, nursing homes have become a trend.  Parents with mental illness are being put in rehab.
As observed for a few decades robots are taking care of many activities and they are even dominating a few fields like the automobile industry. So, Machines can indeed help humankind in achieving remarkable success in many fields.
Do senior citizens love machines ?, You should look at them when they watch TV when they love to play video games on a smartphone. So, If we give them a human-like structure with the ability of a smartphone to make these people happy then it would be quite a monstrous feat.
We provide intelligence, accelerate innovation and implement technology with extraordinary breadth and depth global insights into the big data,data-driven dashboards, applications development, and information management for organizations through combining unique, specialist services and high-lvel human expertise.
Contact us: hello@blackcoffer.com
© All Right Reserved, Blackcoffer(OPC) Pvt. Ltd
